Industry 4.0 Technologies

Industry 4.0 encompasses a range of technologies that are driving through the transformation of
industries. Here are some key technologies associated with Industry 4.0

Electrical Vehicle Technology

1.Electric vehicles offer an opportunity for
a high-performance driving experience
while also reducing our environmental
footprint.

2. The transition to electric mobility is a
promising global strategy for
decarbonizing the transport sector.

3D Printing
(Additive Manufacturing)

1. Additive Manufacturing refers to the
process of creating objects by adding
materials layer by layer.

2. Designing of 3D objects using CAD
(Computer Aided Design) software's
makes easy to this technology which
enables prototype models.

Robotics and Automation

1. Robotics involves the use of automated
machines and systems that can perform
tasks with precision and speed.

2. Automation technologies reduce human
intervention in various processes,
efficiency, leading to improved productivity, and quality control.

Drone Technology

1. An Unmanned Aerial Vehicle more
formally known as Drones or unmanned
aircraft systems.

2. Drones are now used in a range of
civilian needs for surveillance. They
were initially used for anti-aircrafts
target practice, intelligence gathering.

Artificial Intelligence (Al)

1.Artificial Intelligence (Al) is machine
-displayed intelligence that simulates
human behaviour or thinking and can be
trained to salve specific problems.

2.Recently in education sector, Al helps to

increase the productivity among faculties

to concentrate more on students rather

than office or administration work.

Internet of Things (IoT)

1. IoT means internet connected
Physical devices and objects to

enabling them and exchange data.

2. Home automation and Fast Tag
system comes under this technology

which are fully digitalized and no

need of any manual operations

Embedded Systems

1. it is a microcontroller-based system used

to perform a specific task or operation.

It is also a combination of computer hard-
ware and software designed for a specific
function.

2. An independent system or as part of a
large system. At the core is an integr-

ted circuit designed to carry out compu-

tation for real-time operations.

Renewable Energy

1.Renewable energy relies on cutting-
edge photovoltaic cells, transforming
sunlight into electricity, and advanced
wind turbines, converting kinetic wind
energy.

2. Hydropower exploits flowing water, and
geothermal systems tap Earth's internal
heat. These technologies exemplify a

paradigm shift toward cleaner, sustai
able power, mitigating climate change





















